# COSC 426 F24 Lab 9

## Introduction

One of the goals of this course is to train NLP Scholars who can critically
reason about the relationship between evaluations of NLP system capabilities and
society. For this course, you will write a 1-2 page "Society Reflection" paper
that reflects on the relationship between hype culture and scientific advances
in NLP. The goal of this lab is to get you started with writing this paper, and
maybe even finishing it! 

## Provided files

NA

## What to submit

A 1-2 page paper on the gradescope for your **course** section. Prior to writing
your paper, develop answers to the following parts. Your final paper should
synthesize the findings from the parts. 

## Part 1

Find a news article that discusses advances in NLP. Here is a
(non-comprehensive) list of journalists who have written about this topic. You
can look for articles they've written, or find your own. 

*If you are having trouble finding articles, or are finding articles that are
behind a paywall, talk to your lab instructor*

- Jackie Snow
- Kevin Roose
- Nitasha Tiku
- Cade Metz

## Part 2

Identify the central claims being made in the article you selected. Which of the
claims adopt a positive approach to the advances, and which ones adopt a
negative approach?  

## Part 3

What kind of evidence would you need to substantiate the claims you identified
in Part 2? What evidence does the article provide? This should be concrete. If
the article references a benchmark, one thing you can do is look at examples in
the benchmark, possibly playing around with a model trained on the benchmark
using `interact` mode in `NLPScholar` to develop intuitions about whether
success on the benchmark corresponds to the capability the benchmark is meant to
measure. 

## Part 4

Evaluate whether the claims in the article are justified.  Reason about
possibilities for **why** these claims are being made and what societal impact
these claims have. 

